>> Jon Kuperman: For this next
exercise we go back to our site and
we've got exercise for
ARIA labels and roles.
And I have made a very silly and
contrived and
loosely UK football
related maybe application.
The basic idea here, you don't need to
get too much into the source code for
it, but
it's got all these different games and
on a timer they update with
some random things come in.
It shows you when the last update came
through, if you run out of updates
because they're hard coded,
feel free to just refresh the page and
it'll start back over
again at the beginning.
But yeah, so basically you've got this
app here visually it works pretty well.
As events come in, the scores update and
the event gets written here.
And what we want to do for the exercise
is start with the screen reader on,
give it a refresh,
a score updates every 15 seconds.
Give it 15 seconds and
notice that you don't get any kind of
auditory notification that it's updated.
And from there we'll go into the HTML and
play with live regions on
different elements and
with different politeness settings and
see if you can come up with what feels
the best kind of workflow for you.
What you wrap, what you don't wrap,
what you give polite to,
what you give assertive to when you turn
things off, all sorts of things like that.
So the pages here under ARIA, the code
again is like 100% contained in this HTML.
You can largely ignore all of this
JavaScript, I mean, feel free to read
through it, but the JavaScript isn't
necessarily the important part.
The important part is playing
around with this HTML here and
kind of figuring out how it affects the
experience when you wrap different things
in different ARIA live regions, which
ones kind of make the best experience.
All right, cool, so
yeah, let's go through this one, how did
people find it kind of working on it.
Was it interesting listening to
the kind of readouts come through and
different things like that?
Does anybody want to go and answer what
you wrapped in ARIA live regions and
which politeness setting you gave it?
Otherwise I can just go but
if anybody has.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I did M on the header.
>> Jon Kuperman: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: Because I
noticed they were changing and
then the one that was changing,
I did assertive there, right.
>> Jon Kuperman: Was it this up here.
>> Speaker 2: The one there?
Yep.
>> Jon Kuperman: Cool, and
you did assertive for it, okay, awesome.
Any other areas that we added, anything?
It's kind of, I mean, I don't know
there's a necessarily right and
wrong way of doing it, but yeah,
I think I had gone through and
I had added like a polite update on here,
which I'm not sure about.
I mean, maybe it doesn't matter
when the last update came through,
I wrapped the spans that have the score
in them in polites too, with the labels.
And then I wrapped these little
announcement things in assertive as well,
so like when a goal or
something like that comes in,
that's like the most important
thing to read out loud.
And then between wrapping these
with like a live and a label,
it could just say like the team's new
score is 2 or something like that.
Cool, yeah, I wonder if, like,
are there any other areas?
I guess this is, yeah,
I think this is pretty good.
Pretty good stuff here, again,
I don't know that there's necessarily like
a linting way you could do this and prove
that you have the best things activated.
But I do think it's nice whenever you have
DOM that is being dynamically updated
to stop and
consider is this something that would be
worth kind of announcing to the users?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: So at one point I put
assertive on both the last update and
also like the head, like the scores below
and it seemed like the last update would
always like talk over or nothing else
would update except the last update.
>> Jon Kuperman: Wait,
can you say that again?
Sorry, so you put assertive over the,
was it this thing here?
>> Speaker 3: And
then I also put it on the match container,
the div with the match container class.
>> Jon Kuperman: Interesting, so I think
maybe what you can have with assertive is
you can have collisions, right.
Where they both try to go, I guess that is
something to be very mindful of is that if
you do have two things that try to go and
collide, they don't queue.
You'll just get the one
that goes in there, yeah,
I think that's a really good point.
I guess, thinking more on that, I think
that I would wrap everything in polite
except for I guess probably just these
spans here with the actual announcement
update or something like that.
I think it's a good call because you can
queue polite things because they will sort
of add themselves to the idle queue.
So you can have like 100 polite ARIA
live regions, but maybe you should limit
yourself on the assertive ARIA regions
because if they collide with each other,
they won't queue up and read,
yeah, that's a really good point.
Cool, yeah, and I think this one's a bit
fun kind of makes me always want to go
through a lot of the apps that
I work on in my day to day and
consider areas where we could add
just a cool little announcement.